                                         CSS
1) What is CSS?
•   CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets
•   CSS describes how HTML elements are to be displayed on screen, paper, or in other media
•   CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once
•   External stylesheets are stored in CSS files.

2) What are the different ways to include css styles in an html document?
    External CSS.  <link rel="stylesheet" href="mystyle.css">
    Internal CSS.  <style>
                    body {
                    background-color: linen;
                         }
                   </style>
    Inline CSS.    <p style="color:red;">This is a paragraph.</p>

3) What is the box model in CSS?
    The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. 
    It consists of: content, padding, borders and margins.   
    • Content - The content of the box, where text and images appear
    • Padding - Clears an area around the content. The padding is transparent
    • Border - A border that goes around the padding and content
    • Margin - Clears an area outside the border. The margin is transparent  

4) Position property and it's type
    The position property specifies the type of positioning method used for an element 
    (static, relative, absolute, fixed, or sticky).
    • Static:
         Default value. Elements render in order, as they appear in the document flow
         This is the default value.

    • Relative:
         Same as static. But lets you add top, right, bottom, left.
         Makes it move relative to it's normal position
         
    • Absolute:
         Removes from the flow and positions absolute wrt to the parent. 
         Parent has to be relative or absolute for top, right, bottom, left to work. 
         Else it considers the main html element as the  parent .

    • Fixed:
         An element with position: fixed; is positioned relative to the viewport,
         which means it always stays in the same place even if the page is scrolled.

    • Sticky:
         A sticky element toggles between relative and fixed, depending on the scroll position.
         It is positioned relative until a given offset position is met in the 
         viewport - then it "sticks" in place (like position:fixed).
 
5) what is the purpose of the z-index property in css? 
       z-index is the CSS property that controls the stacking order of overlapping elements on a page.
       An element with a higher z-index value will appear in front of an element
       with a lower z-index value.

6) what is the difference between display none and visibility hidden in css?
    "display: none" and "visibility: hidden" are two CSS properties used to control the visibility
     of elements on a webpage. 
    • "display: none" removes the element from the layout 
    • "visibility: hidden" hides the element while preserving its position.       

7) what is the difference between margin and padding?
    • Margin is the space around an element. 
    It is used to move an element up or down on a page as well as left or right. 
    Margins are completely transparent and do not have any background color. 
    They clear the area around the element, pushing adjacent elements away to create the desired gap. 
    Each side of the element can have a different margin size, which you can change individually.

    • Padding is the space between the element and the related content inside it. 
    It determines how elements look and sit within a container. 
    Padding affects the container’s background around the element and clears the area around the content.
    Increasing the padding size either grows the element size or shrinks the content inside,
    with the element size increasing by default.    

8) what is pseudo class in css?
    A CSS pseudo-class is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state 
    of the selected element(s).
    For example, 
          the pseudo-class :hover

9) what is the use of overflow property in css?
    The overflow CSS shorthand property sets the desired behavior 
    when content does not fit in the element's padding box (overflows) in the 
    horizontal and/or vertical direction.           
    • overflow: visible;
    • overflow: hidden;
    • overflow: clip;
    • overflow: scroll;
    • overflow: auto;

10) what is the purpose of media queries in css?
     Media queries allow you to apply CSS styles depending on a device's media type 
     (such as print vs. screen) or other features or characteristics such as screen resolution 
     or orientation, aspect ratio, browser viewport width or height, 
     user preferences such as preferring reduced motion, data usage, or transparency.    

11) What is the difference between margin:auto; and margin: 0 auto;?
     margin:auto; center the content horizontally within its containing element 
     margin: 0 auto; centers the content both horizontally and vertically within its containing element.

12) what is the difference between rem em and px ?
    • Rem (Root em): This unit is relative to the root element (usually the <html> tag) 
    and is useful for creating responsive designs. 
    One rem is equal to the font size of the root element. 
    So if the font-size of the root element is set to 16px, then 1rem is equal to 16px.
    
    • Em: This unit is relative to the font size of the parent element 
    and can be useful for creating scalable designs. 
    
    • Px (Pixel): This unit is an absolute unit of measurement and is not relative to anything else.
    It is commonly used for fixed-size elements or elements that require exact measurements.

13):nth-child() in CSS 
    The :nth-child() CSS pseudo-class matches elements based on the indexes of the elements 
    in the child list of their parents. In other words, the :nth-child() 
    selector selects child elements according to their position among all the sibling elements 
    within a parent element.

